# Neuroforest 

This repository contains the notebooks used by Tom Fizycki & Benjamin Kupecek for the AI project.
It also contains most of the results and created documents, as well as the trajectories of the Neuroforest dataset. 

Most of the work was done on the 2022 trajectories dataset. 

Below is a description of the repository, following the organization of the folder.

## trajectories

Contains the processed trajectories of 2022 and 2024.

## generated_trajectories

Contains the trajectories generated by VAE techniques. reconstructed_trajectories contains original trajectories that went through encoder-decoder, and vae_experiments contains trajectories generated on different kinds of training sets.

## neuroforest-master

Contains the main codes.

### neuroforest

Ths folder contains dataset.py, which defines objects like NeuroForestSample, NeuroForestSession, which allow us to manipulate either samples (one game) or sessions (uniform/patchy). It also defines Coordinates and TimeStampedCoordinates object, which allow for the description of mushroom positions and trajectories. ImageLoader is used in 2D_CNN.ipynb, and is a dataloader for trajectory images. Some auxiliary function are also used later. preprocess.py should not be used as preprocessed trajectories are already present in the repo.


### main.py

main.py contains different function and classes that are used later, mostly as dataloaders or for data treatment purposes. As it also imports objects from dataset.py, it includes daatloader objects that are not defined in this file, but are often imported from main.py in other notebooks.

### Notebooks

This folder contains all the notebooks used in the project. 

1. 2d-CNN.ipynb aimed to predict ASRS scores based on 2D images of the trajectories, with different impresison parameters (with or without timestamps, mushrooms...). The second part of the NB tries to implement a classsifier rather than a regressos, as the task was poorly performed.

2. analyze_trajectories.ipynb

3. extract_features_final.ipynb aims to extract handcrafted features on trajectories. Results are saved in the results subfolder.

4. extraction_to_wildgen.ipynb allowed to perform conversions of trajectories into format supported by the VAE, and to perform experiments and features computing on trajectories generated by the VAE.

5. fractal_frequencies.ipynb 

6. image_creations.ipynb created images for 2d_CNN.ipynb with all kinds of impression parameters. 

7. patch_vs_uniform.ipynb

8. test_drawing.ipynb

9.  test_heatmap.ipynb

10. test_logging.ipynb

11. test_zero_segments.ipynb

12. VAE_EXP.ipynb stores all the experiments done with the VAE directly, such as generation tasks of parameters gridsearch. 





# Remarks 
Subjects "Fred" and "margaux" were deleted due to incomplete data, making dataloader fail when confronted to those profiles.

